Are you a leader or a business
professional?
If you answered yes to that question, it
is my belief that you should have a
keynote speech.
Maybe that's something you've never
thought of before. But hear me out. I
believe as a leader, it is your job to
inspire other people. And one of the
best ways to do this is to have a
structured presentation that you're able
to deliver to different groups depending
on the context that represents some form
of transformation that perhaps you've
experienced but that you want your
audience to experience as well. The best
thing about having a speech that's
created is as a leader or business
professional, I can almost guarantee
there will be opportunities in the
future for you to give this
presentation. And maybe you don't have
anything on the calendar at this moment
in time, but I truly believe once you
have something created, you will seek
out those opportunities where you can
teach others. And that is critical. That
is part of your job as a leader that you
should be teaching, instructing others.
I believe a speech can open up
opportunities for you to advance your
own career. So what whatever capacity
you are a leader in, I want you to start
thinking about creating your own
keynote. It's my belief leaders and
business professionals should have some
sort of keynote speech in their pocket.
So with that in mind, now what? you've
decided, okay, I want to create a
presentation as a leader. Where do I
begin? And just like Simon SK would say,
start with why. We often think when
we're given the chance to speak, well,
what should I talk about? How can I
entertain the audience? How can I keep
them engaged for 60 minutes? But instead
of thinking I I I want you to focus on
your audience. What can they get from
your presentation? How will they be
transformed after hearing you speak?
Maybe you're going to tell career advice
that you received at an early age and
how it's guided you well over the years.
Maybe you're going to talk about
something outside of work like family
life and achieving balance. Or maybe
you're going to have a very dialed
presentation on how people can increase
their growth within the company in a
short amount of time.
Whatever the context, I want you to
think very specifically. Why would an
audience member want to sit through
this? How am I going to transform that
person? What is the actionable thing I
want them to leave with? Leaders who are
creating their own keynote speech should
define their audience. And maybe this is
a speech that will be given out several
different times to different groups.
That's fine. But each opportunity should
be customtailored for that audience. If
you're g giving a presentation to a room
full of grade 12 students, that's
probably going to be a different
variation of the presentation than you
give in front of a room full of CEOs who
are averaging in age around 60 years old
because there's different context there.
There's different life experience. And
no matter who your audience is, you
should do the research to understand
what their values, their beliefs, their
demographic, all of those things are.
And then ensure that your message is
speaking directly to them. Do the
research on your audience. Some of the
best keynote speakers I know will call
the company and ask them to suggest a
few clients or perhaps consultants or
people who know the job really well or
potentially the customers and they will
interview those people to start to get
their head in the same space of this
particular industry so that when they're
speaking on stage they're they're
speaking directly to that audience. A
classic example I give, if I'm speaking
to a audience full of real estate
professionals and I start talking about
how to impress your boss, that is
missing the mark because most real
estate professionals are independent
contractors. They're like entrepreneurs
who don't really have a boss in that
sense. Therefore, it's important to
research your audience if you are a
leader giving a presentation. Business
professionals and leaders who are
creating presentations to inspire
audiences should structure it properly.
And there are three main things that
most speeches have. A beginning, a
middle, and an end. Pretty basic, pretty
straightforward. But what's important is
that the beginning, the intro hooks the
audience's attention. Maybe it's a
thought-provoking question. Maybe it's
jumping right into a story. Perhaps it's
a powerful statistic, but it's something
that is not simply the formality of,
"Hey everyone, for those who don't know
me, my name is Wade and today I'm going
to talk about dot dot dot." No, jump
right into the good material because you
only have a short amount of time to
capture your audience's attention. After
that intro, you have the middle or the
body of the speech. And this is often
used best when you have certain number
of points that you really want to land.
So maybe your speech is about the five
main leadership lessons you've learned
throughout your life. Now it's an easy
to follow list. You've got the intro
that hooked the audience's attention.
Then you segue into these five
particular tips. Or maybe you're giving
a chronological speech where you're
talking about your progression as a
leader and the lessons that you've
learned. So you're going to start back
in time 20 years ago and then you're
going to talk about present day and then
eventually you'll talk about the future
and what you hope to achieve going
forward. That's a chronological speech.
These are examples of the middle of a
speech. And then you have the
conclusion. And you want to leave your
audience with a great final impression.
And one of the best ways to do that is
to make your speech come full circle.
And this means the first thing you
mention in your speech should be also
the last thing that is mentioned. So if
you started by telling a powerful story,
then you give your speech, then you end
by referencing that story you started
your speech with. Leaders who structure
their speeches appropriately have the
best chance of making a true impression
and a lasting impression on their
audience. Leaders who are creating a
keynote speech should definitely
incorporate personal stories. Very
quickly, there is this statistic that
personal stories are remembered 22 times
more than facts alone. So from a pure
goal of trying to ensure that your
audience remembers what it is that you
had to say, that is verification enough
to inject stories. But if we think as an
audience member the most enjoyable
speeches we've sat through, I almost
guarantee that there were some elements
of storytelling within that presentation
because stories are interesting.
Throughout our entire lives, we love
hearing a good story. And if the story
can be appropriately attached to the
message you're trying to deliver, now
not only are you sharing the
information, but you're sharing the
information in a way that is actually
going to stick with your audience.
Leaders or business professionals who
are creating a keynote speech because I
think this is a really important idea.
No matter what type of leader you are, I
think you should have a keynote and I
think that you should make different
variations or versions of it. So perhaps
you start with the full 60inute keynote
presentation,
but what if you were given a chance to
speak for 15 minutes? Do you have a way
to dial that down? You should be
thinking about a condensed version. What
is the most important and essential
information that you could give? One
quick way to do that, if your keynote
speech is seven tips of how to be an
amazing leader, maybe your 15inute
version is three tips and you pick the
top three and you should have a halfhour
version and you should have a version
that you present to colleagues and a
version that you present to those who
are outside of your organization.
Be thinking about all the ways you can
leverage this type of speech and don't
just stick to one long 60 minute speech.
Be nimble. Have different variations.
That way you can maximize the exposure
of where you can showcase this speech.
My final tip for leaders and business
professionals who are creating a keynote
because it is my strong belief that if
you are a leader, it's actually your job
to create something like this, a
speaking opportunity because part of
your job is to inspire other people. So
why not be proactive and create a bit of
a speech that you can share with others?
And if you are doing this once you've
created it, I want you to look for
active opportunities, places where you
can give this presentation.
Perhaps you're part of an organization
or an industry that has annual
conferences. What do those conferences
look like in terms of speakers? Why not
send the event organizer an email
letting them know, hey, I've got this
presentation. I'd be happy to present it
for free. I just want to get in front of
this particular audience. Or maybe
there's a local Rotary club in town and
you get to know some of the Rotary
members. That's another place you could
pitch your speech if you want to make a
difference to those people. Or you could
try testing the speech at a local
Toastmasters club. Or maybe you inspire
high school students when they're having
a career day or some sort of event.
There are countless opportunities for
you to inspire the people in your
community. the people around you. This
can be done in person. This can be done
virtually. But step one is taking the
time to create your presentation. Ask
yourself, what mark do you want to leave
on this world? What do you want to share
with other people? How can you help
other people? And once you have that
created, go deliver that speech. Thank
you so much for taking the time to watch
this video. If you are a business
professional or a leader who knows you
need to start creating a keynote and you
want to work with me one- on-one private
lessons, please check out my standtore
link in the bottom of this video. You
can book the one-on-one sessions with me
and I can help you get that speech to a
very professional level. If you have not
already subscribed to my channel, please
do so. Whether you are a business
professional, a leader, or someone who
is aspiring to be such and simply wants
to improve their public speaking skills,
I have a ton of content that can help
you do that. And check out the video
that YouTube is recommending you watch
right now. Have a great day.